= Getting Started with the AWS SDK for Ruby

The AWS SDK for Ruby helps you to get started building applications
using AWS infrastructure services, including Amazon Simple Storage
Service (Amazon S3), Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2), Amazon
SimpleDB, and more. This guide shows how you can start building Ruby
and Rails applications on the Amazon Web Services platform with the
AWS Ruby gem.

= Get Set Up

To get set up, you must sign up for Amazon Web Services, get your AWS
credentials, and set up your environment.

== Sign Up for AWS Products

Before you can begin, you must sign up for each AWS product you want
to use. The sample included in the SDK uses Amazon S3, so we'll use
that product as an example here.

=== To sign up for a product

1. Go to the home page for the product, for example
   http://aws.amazon.com/s3.

   *Tip:* Go to http://aws.amazon.com/products for a list of links to all our products.

2. Click the sign-up button on the top right corner of the page.

3. Follow the on-screen instructions. If you don't already have an AWS
   account, you are prompted to create one as part of the sign-up
   process.

AWS sends you a confirmation e-mail after the sign-up process is
complete. You can view your current account activity or manage your
account at any time, by going to http://aws.amazon.com and clicking
the *Account* tab.

== Get Your Credentials

To use the AWS SDK for Ruby, you need your AWS Access Key ID and Secret Access Key.

=== To get your AWS Access Key ID and Secret Access Key

1. Go to http://aws.amazon.com.

2. Click *Account* and then click <b>Security Credentials</b>.
   The Security Credentials page displays (you might be prompted to log in).

3. Scroll down to Access Credentials and make sure the <b>Access Keys</b> tab
   is selected.  The AWS Access Key ID appears in the Access Key column.

4. To view the Secret Access Key, click *Show*.

   *Important!* Your Secret Access Key is a secret, which only you and
   AWS should know. It is important to keep it confidential to protect
   your account. Store it securely in a safe place. Never include it in
   your requests to AWS, and never e-mail it to anyone. Do not share it
   outside your organization, even if an inquiry appears to come from AWS
   or Amazon.com. No one who legitimately represents Amazon will ever ask
   you for your Secret Access Key.

== Set Up Your Environment

The AWS Ruby gem runs on Ruby 1.8.7 and later. If you have an older
version of Ruby, RVM is a great way to get started using the latest
version.

= Install the SDK

To install the AWS Ruby gem, just enter:

  gem install aws-sdk

= Run the Samples

Now that you've installed the gem, you can run the samples, which you
can find in our GitHub repository:

  $ git clone git://github.com/amazonwebservices/aws-sdk-for-ruby.git
  $ cd aws-sdk-for-ruby/samples/

The subdirectories of the +samples+ directory contain several code
samples that you can run.  These samples demonstrate basic usage of
the SDK features.

== To run the Amazon S3 Sample

1. Create a file named config.yml in the samples directory as follows:

     # Fill in your AWS Access Key ID and Secret Access Key
     # http://aws.amazon.com/security-credentials
     access_key_id: REPLACE_WITH_ACCESS_KEY_ID
     secret_access_key: REPLACE_WITH_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

2. Run a sample script with the Ruby interpreter. For example, to run
   the s3/upload_file.rb sample:

     $ echo "Hello, World!" > helloworld.txt
     $ ruby s3/upload_file.rb unique-bucket-name helloworld.txt

== To use the AWS ORM in a Rails 3 application

1. Install the gem:

     $ gem install aws-sdk

2. Start a new Rails project:

     $ gem install rails
     $ rails new myapp
     $ cd myapp/

3. Add the following line to your Gemfile:

     gem 'aws-sdk'

4. Install dependencies:

     $ bundle install

5. Create config/aws.yml as follows:

     # Fill in your AWS Access Key ID and Secret Access Key
     # http://aws.amazon.com/security-credentials
     access_key_id: REPLACE_WITH_ACCESS_KEY_ID
     secret_access_key: REPLACE_WITH_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY

6. Create config/initializers/aws.rb as follows:

     # load the libraries
     require 'aws'
     # log requests using the default rails logger
     AWS.config(:logger => Rails.logger)
     # load credentials from a file
     config_path = File.expand_path(File.dirname(__FILE__)+"/../aws.yml")
     AWS.config(YAML.load(File.read(config_path)))

7. Create app/models/my_record.rb as follows:

     class MyRecord < AWS::Record::Base
       string_attr :name
     end

8. Create the SimpleDB domain:

     $ rails console
     > MyRecord.create_domain

Now, you can play around with the model by creating some records and querying them:

  > MyRecord.find(:all).to_a
  => []
  > MyRecord.new(:name => "The first one").save
  => true
  > MyRecord.new(:name => "The second one").save
  => true
  > MyRecord.where('name like ?', "%first%").count
  => 1

Exit the rails console before continuing to the next step:

  > exit

9. Generate a scaffold controller for your model:

     $ rails generate scaffold_controller MyRecord name:string
     $ rails server

10. Add a route to your scaffold controller in config/routes.rb:

      Myapp::Application.routes.draw do
        # add this line:
        resources :my_records
      end

11. Now, you can create records in the browser at http://localhost:3000/my_records.

= Where Do I Go from Here?

For more information about the AWS SDK for Ruby, including a complete
list of supported AWS products, go to
http://aws.amazon.com/sdkforruby.

The SDK reference documentation provides information about both the
AWS Ruby gem and AWS Rails integration gem. You can find it at
http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AWSRubySDK/latest.

Licensed under Apache 2.0. See {file:LICENSE.txt} and {file:NOTICE.txt} files.
